hello everyone this is Evan Abrams and
in this After Effects tutorial sponsored
by videoblocks we're gonna be creating a
delightful sliding glass pane slideshow
and a wise head slide twice that looks
something like this now this is
something I've been asked to do a bunch
of time so I guess it's pretty popular
you've got some footage down there I
have these sliding glass panes going
over it you know we could throw in some
particles I guess but the panes are
distorting what's under them and we
transition to something new you know
when we'll talk about how to expand this
to have like a million panes or no panes
or you know pain in my butt or we're
going to just have a lot of Clips not a
lot of clips but we'll talk also about
kind of template design and some of the
big-picture stuff yeah we're going to
technically do the thing and if you want
to just do the thing you're welcome to
but you know stick around talk about
more stuff hopefully and then we do some
real learning anyway before we go into
After Effects you're probably going to
need some footage and I also mentioned
we are sponsored in this episode by
episode I have episodes I don't know
in this tutorial responds about video
blocks we're doing a thing that requires
footage oh man that's a great synergy
because video blocks has one point eight
million clips for you to choose from so
check that out it's the largest
unlimited download library on the
internet so they say it looks pretty
large to me so I recommend you check it
out there's actually a link in the
description where you can enjoy seven
days free access to this world do free
stuff mMmmm enjoy 140 clips download
those through yours for life enjoy get
those and then let's get into the
tutorial okay so here inside of After
Effects the first thing you want to do
is import some footage also if your
After Effects doesn't look like my After
Effects that could be because I am using
version thirteen point eight point 0.14
for the newest at this time of recording
and that could be it so let's get that
footage in here so double clicking over
here grab these footages open them yes
please
and the first thing you'll notice about
the footage is first the size 1920 by
that's the 1080p the frame size and it
also notice that they all kind of have
different frame rates we got some 24 is
23 is 29 and for this I'm going to start
by making a new composition I'm going to
call it slide 1 and we're going to use
the HDTV 29.97 preset you will need to
pick something that's going to be your
final output for this thing so when
you're doing montages or when you're
doing arrangements of footages when
you're doing slideshows you might not
have all the same stuff so you are going
to want to pick a common denominator for
your stuff and just be aware that let's
say you have sung as 24 frames a second
and you're going up to 29 then well
you'll lose you know roughly 5 frames
every second as it tries to catch up or
you'll have to speed up the footage to
make up the difference or you can work
with the fewest number of frames so the
smallest number I had was 23.976 so
maybe we should stick with that and the
duration that I'm going to choose is how
long one slide is going to be so how
long do I want to look at one picture at
a maximum how long do I want to look at
one piece of footage as a maximum and I
think 10 seconds is long enough you
might want longer you might want shorter
I don't know what you're doing I don't
know your business but that's it we're
set up we're good to go and yes please
so what we're going to do since we're
making a slideshow is I'm going to want
to be able to duplicate this slide 1
composition you know 10 times 20 times
however many times and replace very few
things to make a new thing so in the
slide I'm going to want the footage so
I'm just going to drag the footage down
here and we should probably reorganize
our stuff a little bit so let's take all
of these footages put them in a folder
call it do to jizz footages good and
we've got a slide here and when we have
more slides will reorganize that but
for now we've got a slide it's got
footage what did we want to do with this
again
I think sliding panes of stuff was the
idea but before that there are some
steps to do before we get there I know
for a fact that no matter what we use
whether it's an image a picture some
video this video happens to have a some
motion in it you know we've got this
little tracking shot that goes through
the woods pretty nice but if it was a
different piece of footage maybe it was
footage like maybe the sunset where the
camera doesn't move at all we're totally
locked off we want to put some motion
into this layer and so that no matter
how boring the shot might be this is not
a boring shot but if it's a photo if
it's something else whatever we switch
this out with we want it to still have
that dynamic movement to it
how would I either move this or move
something looking at that like a camera
so I'm going to make this 3d and then
I'm going to go new camera and use the
24 millimeter preset wonderful I've got
a camera in here then I'm going to hit
the old P button to call up its position
I set one keyframe over here which is
best clicking the stopwatch and then go
to the very end and let's just shave 200
pixels off of that so it's constantly
pushing in a little bit so I think
that's a nice nice movement because if
we have something that's very static
we'll probably want to jazz it up a
little bit and the other thing I want to
do with this footage because I'm going
to have side-to-side sliding motion I
kind of want this to slide side to side
as well so I think I'll bump this by
hundred pixels in one direction
cool then go to the end over here and
you know we'll just go under pixels from
baseline in the other direction and that
causes us to be we have this little edge
here that is not very attractive but
don't worry I think we're going to get
smooth there by the end of this thing I
have a feeling I have kind of a feeling
I know
where this thing goes so we've got this
subtly moving thing in the background
and I think we're able to now safely
move on and put those glass panes in
front of it so like I said for our base
layer we can use any kind of layer
anything that has information on it it
could be a composition full of other
stuff too so I could pre compose this
like so and just call this footage or
buy footage one just because then if
people want to come in here and mess
with this they go into footage one they
can put whatever they want in here so
great remember we got footage on the
bottom followed by a new adjustment
layer on top of that and this adjustment
layer is going to be those glass panes
now adjustment layers are not same as
other layers they got this little box
checked here and for those of you who
are not aware nothing you put on the
adjustment layer is really going to
affect it it's sort of like a lens
through which we view other layers so if
I for example go to the effects and I
put a tint on this layer this layer
doesn't get tinted but anything under it
is tinted so we put a tint on there and
let's tint it down 5% tinting so barely
noticeable tinting let's also put on
here a curve is some curves that can be
fun and with the curves I think what I
want to do is adjust the Reds adjust the
Reds like so and then I think I want to
adjust the Blues in the opposite
direction like this causing what we call
cross process good but the big thing
about the glass is not that it's tinting
it's not that it's altering the color I
will just switch those like that so it
curves first and then tints but the
thing it does is it magnifies and
thankfully a lot of the effects and
after effects are named for what they do
so you want to magnify the layer well we
got distort magnify enjoy and drop that
in magnify causes this little circle
to show up because our shape is circle I
want that to be a square please and the
magnification I mean it can be pretty
big we can be zero like a hundred
percent but let's just go 110 that
should be fine for now and then we can
make the scaling soft we can make it
scatter and this is sort of a quality
thing change the blending mode and map
but the big thing we're interested in is
the magnification and the size the size
is how big is this square and this is
important because the magnify effect is
applied to the frame and everything
about it is relative to the frame so you
can see the square there I hope and if
we take the adjustment layer and I move
it see that Square doesn't stay in the
same spot the boundary for the
adjustment layer has moved well the
square is in the same spot because it's
defined by this center here so if I move
it over here move it over here that's
how you move this not by moving the
layer so I'll just go ahead and reset
that value and I'll go ahead and
position and I'll go reset this value
what we want to do is make this square
so big that it covers the entire thing
without us having to do very much stuff
so 1080 is probably going to be a very
safe size to take over the whole frame
if your frame is smaller smaller number
if your frame is bigger bigger number so
we've got it magnifying we've got it
changing the color a bit we've got it
tinting a bit let's also make it blur a
bit so many blurs so many blurs I think
the blur I'm interested in is the
obsolete fast blur that's no longer cool
and make sure you have repeat edge
pixels on I think 10 10 blurriness is
fine
might not be fine for you what's right
for me might not be right for you it
takes different strokes we've got this
so I think that's working out now if we
just animated this over be more let's
seems to be working so good we don't
want it to be this wide though I don't
think the glass panes ever need to be
super big so what I'm going to do is
is I'm going to scale it down and
unclick this link and then we are going
to scale it down let's scale it down 25
percent sure and so now we've got this
glass pane and I think that's working it
all right but the glass panes we want to
have a little edge on them I want those
edges to be magnifying in a different
way than the rest of these things are
and how will we do this well we're going
to duplicate this particular thing so
we've got one adjustment layer and we're
going to call it main adjustment and
let's call this one let's call this one
edge one adjustment so we know this is
for the main stuff and this will be just
for one of the edges and because we want
to line this up in a very good way let's
go changing its anchor point by hitting
a set the anchor point to 960 zero
meaning the anchor point is now here on
one of its edges and we're going to
parent and parent one of these to the
other so the edge is parented to the
main and then we're going to change its
position to also be at zero so it hasn't
moved but if we scale this down we scale
it down to be like this and already
we've got this brighter edge wonderful
and we can rotate this and move it
around and whew it's doing the things
awesome but I don't think I don't think
this is everything that I want this edge
to do I would like it to tint more I
think a 10% tint would be good the
blurriness is okay but it's not the kind
of blurriness I want I'm going to delete
that the magnify I'm down with the
curves and we don't really need the
curves on there but I would like would
like a blur that is directional I want
this only to blur in one direction and I
kind of want to have control over this
because you might want it to be
blurring a lot maybe blurred out 50 and
maybe you want to have this sort of
match the angle that your stuff is at so
if we want to angle these at 45 degrees
maybe we angle this at 45 degrees but
right now I think it's doing a good job
going vertically we'll touch that up
later so we've got this we've got that
and the next thing I think is make use
of a brightness and contrast change and
we're going to make it let's make this a
little bit brighter so this will be the
bright edge and contrasting make a
little bit less contrasting like maybe
this edge is kind of frosted we're going
to make it more contrasting maybe as the
light refracts through it these are all
choices that you have to make for
yourself so I'll just go ahead and reset
that rotation and stick it back in the
middle here just so we don't lose track
of it okay so we've got one edge I think
that edge is a little bit too big two
and three okay that's good let's make
another one let's if we've got a bright
edge we should have a dark edge so let's
duplicate that and you know an edge to
adjustment so since we want darker we
know just minus this and 30 contrast is
good but its location is not good so
call up its position call up its Anchor
Point and change these numbers to be
matching the other edge so that the
anchor point on it is now moved to 960
1080 its position relative to its parent
is now 960 1080 so we get these two
edges I think that's working out pretty
well the next thing that we're going to
want to do though is to take these and
we are going to want them to be 3d and
we want them to be 3d because a camera
is moving in towards them and if they're
not 3d they're not going to interact in
the same way so let's click this box and
make them 3d also so that when camera
moves forwards
good so it's moving with them and we
might want to have ten of these things
we might want to have like 50 of these
things we don't know but I do know I
don't want to make like three of these
every time so let's pre compose them
let's go command shift C pre compose and
let's call this pain and we're going to
move all the attributes into the new
composition because it's the only choice
we have and please open the new
composition as well and we're going to
hit OK and in here as you can see there
is nothing nothing going on these layers
are still here but they're adjusting
nothing so that's not very interesting
we go here into slide one and it looks
like there's also nothing going on in
here and that's because we need to hit
this collapse transformation button and
what this does is it takes everything
that's in this composition inside slide
one brings it out here so everything in
slide one is out here now and now we
just need to make it 3d so we can
manipulate it around and then we can
just just rotate this as we like so
we're this Co what you think 60 degrees
that looks okay
cool so there you go we've got one pane
sliding across oh boy so we can do that
now if we duplicate this a bunch of
times so we make one okay and make one
overlapping here make one over here you
know we just make a bunch of them and I
think we are good to go but if you want
to alter the pane in somewhere like um
and I don't think doesn't need to
magnify that much do this well then that
change will populate out here and
similarly if you want to add some stuff
in here like I've just decided that this
requires a gradient on it like a
gradient kind of shine on it I think the
best way to do that is to have it run
this is the dark edge here the bright
edge here so I'm going to duplicate this
layer and instead of being an adjustment
layer I'm going to click this and that
no longer adjusting and it doesn't need
any of these effects
those what it does need is a gradient a
gradient ramp yours might not be called
gradient ramp I don't know what yours is
called but we're going to set that in
there we're going to go to it's toggle
switches modes and then we're going to
go to the mode of AD and if you're like
me and you work on a smaller screen for
tutorial making toggling switches the
modes just does that out here you can
see these are all set to add now if I
set this to normal like this then these
are all now set to normal so we go back
in here definitely add that's definitely
the winner and it's transparency you can
bring that way down Thanks so that looks
good and then we get this kind of thing
going on ooh Purdy pretty fancy so now
we've got these panes set up if we want
to make changes to them we can go in and
do that but I think the thing we want to
do with them is make them move around am
I right people am i right so let's do
just that first I think we need some
variety so we've got I don't know a
bunch of them let's make more of them
let's make some of them scaled up let's
scale some of these like this let's make
some wider ones
let's make maybe some 200 wide ones cool
I change their color so that we can
remember you know these are sort of the
bigger ones and let's scale these down I
think let's make them half size so we
will remember a lavender pink maybe a
same color the camera I don't know
seafoam sure so we've got small ones
we've got big ones we've got medium ones
let's also offset them in space so that
as we move forward some of them are
going to be moving a little bit more
than others so let's call up their
positions and I kind of want to put them
in order since we're working with
adjustment layers they're gonna force
their order on to us so they will ignore
visually which one is in
three-dimensions
closer or further they'll only remember
what order they are in the layers so
let's kind of randomize it a little bit
this this this this this and it looks
okay and then starting at the top let's
make you - 500 so it's getting closer to
the camera - 400 - 300 cool next - 200
good and finally - 100 and then blue boy
whoopsie screw this one up let's go -
600 and then move up to the top oh boy
even I make mistakes so as you can see
that is now altered these things as we
move closer to this they seem to be
drifting a little bit it's a little bit
motion already and we haven't even moved
them but we're going to set position
keyframes for them all we are going to
move them let's move them out of frame
for some of them move you out of frame
over here great let's move you over here
I think very good and let's move you
over here great and let's move you over
here and move you over here sure
okay good so we've got all these things
maybe even further that are starting
like this and then when they end when
they end we want to sort of compose our
busy-busy frame with all the things we
want to stick on here so move the things
into position and we go so this thing
just kind of careen through into here
let's have this big fella come on like
this kind of framing up framing up the
shot with these things like this and
maybe this will come in like that and
how am I feeling about this I did it -
no feeling okay I suppose maybe I need
to scale these down a little bit maybe
that
too big now maybe in here I think well
now I think that dark edge is probably
too big so I'll just drop that down a
little bit all right let me go back in
yeah
that's okay let's drop it down even more
good okay this is something I can live
with that's kind of boring though the
way they're coming in is not doing it
for me
so call up all of the position keyframes
here and let's go into the graph editor
and select all those properties with all
those keyframes and hopefully your graph
editor looks like mine you toggle it
with this but if not you might need to
look at a speed graph instead of a value
graph so value graph would look like
this speed graph would look like this
and then in here select everything and
we are going to easy Eastham you can hit
f9 you can click this button now what
this is telling us is before everything
was at a constant speed over time but
this is telling us it is doing nothing
here getting faster and then coming back
to nothing so I'm going to pull this
handle like this so that it's ending
nothing is a lot more influential and
then it's beginning nothing is it not
influential at all so it's going to
start as fast as possible and then drift
gently drifting and wonderful that's
wonderful gentle drifting for the rest
of this thing as we push in and you
might also want to like tweak these
around this is the time when you're
going to play route these things to
really make it make it do what you want
and hopefully it does anyway you play
around with it you do what you got to do
the last thing that you need to do is
bring this footage on in some way so
it's not just bat hanging out we've got
these angled things coming in why don't
we use one of them give me a give me one
of these give me the biggest one maybe
and actually give me the app for just
one so I'm going to duplicate this one
and I'm going to call it let's call it
transition pain and the transition pain
and hit P on that one
and we're going to clear those keyframes
click the stopwatch get rid of them set
it to zero on the z-axis so it's right
down against the footage move it down to
be right on top of the footage great and
let's solo those let's only look at
these that's all we're interested in
looking at so this one on top of this
one good and we will be keyframing its
position to go from totally off out here
and then you know it should be totally
on within say twenty frames probably up
right here 20 frames we should be all
the way across perfectly wonderful good
and the type of motion we want we won't
go back into that graph editor and we're
going to ease them I'm going to go into
that graph editor we are going to push
this one like so and this one we're
going to go 66% that seems good so it's
going to just come in poor pretty fast
cruising by we want to extend this a
little bit so it doesn't doesn't totally
get lost we still want to see it we
still want to appreciate what's going on
I think good but we need it to reveal
this footage so let's go and make
something helpful for that so let's go
layer new solid wonderful make comp size
so we got this solid and let's make it
3d and parent it to the transition pane
and when we do hold down shift and
that'll get this to sort of snap on to
it so that it sticks to the other one
and moves itself those anchor points on
top of each other great now let's also
change that anchor point so that it's
right at the edge 1080 you know how we
do then we want to change its position
by grabbing this thing
and going like that just drag it down so
that's right there on that holding down
command and locking it in or you can do
the math to get it in the exact correct
position the next thing we need to do is
make sure that once this has gone slid
all the way across that this black solid
here is taking up the entire screen so
we can do that by sort of dragging this
out like this and then coming down like
so you know it's a little bit janky but
it does work
doo-doo-doo-doo ooh so let's scale up
please move this up please good and last
but not least this is the big thing
we've used modes now we're going to use
the track mat so let's go to the
switches slash modes go to footage one
and tell it to alpha mat of the black
solid meaning that this layer will ask
the layer above it the layer above what
should I be doing and it will say you
should be visible wherever I am visible
and then that's what you see so anywhere
this red thing is this thing also is and
that looks like this so this is we come
on like so now the only thing left to do
is scale this up so we don't have any
more of this going on anymore that
nonsense and that looks like it does it
let's go a little bit further for safety
and poor wonderful now I'll take this
solo off so we can see everything bring
alright and so we've got these pains
over here that kind of come out of
nowhere maybe you want to adjust those
out of the way maybe you want to keep
them though and I'll show you why in the
next part when we take this and stick it
somewhere else so we are going to take
this thing this slide one and let's
duplicate it now we'll duplicate it we
make slide number to duplicate that
makes slide number three if we go into
slide two we
can you know we can go in here and we
can you know move a bunch of this stuff
around say who this should be here or
you know this should end this should end
somewhere else should end like here that
seems pretty good I switch these things
around make something interesting out of
all of them have a little variety in
your day and then we need different
footage in here so we should duplicate
footage one to make footage two and we
go into footage two we grab this thing
and we replace it with this
I guess so we're holding down alt and
then we're dragging on to the new thing
and if we duplicate footage two and two
footage three we repeat the process like
this or maybe we like that the cityscape
great so we've got these footage
containers then we've also got slide two
and slide three
so in slide three let's go to footage
one replace it with footage three then
in slide two we replace footage one with
footage - so footage two is in slide two
footage three and slide three and what
we end up with is three different slides
now take these three slides and put them
in a new composition like so we would
like it to be a single composition we
would like to sequence the layers please
let's overlap them great and that sounds
good and we're going to go okay and it's
going to create this which is kind of
wrong for our purposes we want it to be
so that slide one is under everything
and then on top of it is slide two and
so on so that here where they overlap
each other let's go set my work area
here and here so we can observe that we
want them to get a little weird so you
can see whirl oh this thing's this pains
coming in nice oh that's pretty funky
nice now you can also as we learned
about class collapsing transformations
already
what would happen if you did that in
here well then you get the pains
interacting with each other
unfortunately you lose that camera
motion so something to consider as well
but yeah that's that's pretty much it
you've made a slideshow now you are
probably thinking Evan you put text in
yours
as you're right I did put text in mind
you would do that exactly the same as
you've done to reveal this footage here
so I would duplicate this make another
transition and I would put it up in the
middle like in the midst of these things
and then I would just offset it in time
a little bit like so so the text is
coming on after and then you just need
to make a text layer so I'm going to go
command T text like this that's pretty
great and you can start at the same time
as this it could be made 3d I think so
thank you and where should it be though
let's look at this stuff from the top
and I think it should be between the
layers right so if it's going to be in
between them in the stack here it should
be in between them here so it makes
sense visually and then we return to the
active camera we position this somewhere
and then we should treat the text we
should treat the text real nice so what
we're going to do is put some effects on
that effect like a ramp my gradient ramp
ooh sweet gradient ramp and like this
just move these things around swap those
please and the other things that we're
done were maybe a a bevel of the Alpha
and maybe a CC light sweep yeah let's do
that
and then you know we can try to have
this light sweep perhaps make all the
light kind of match or go counter to the
sort of light scenario that we're kind
of showing off with this stuff but I do
like to
sort of make sure that this is actually
being animated while everything else is
animating so that the sweep is kind of
like me shining going across everything
across oh boy
and finally have a little drop shadow on
it a little drop shadow drop eboo back
there all right softness yeah definitely
soften that up please
and that should do it then you've got
some text you know hiding in the back
being affected by all these layers and
then finally being sort of revealed and
then people can enjoy reading that text
I guess or not maybe they won't enjoy it
at all I don't know maybe you put
something offensive in your text I can't
say but would it name it so this thing
here that has been named slide for that
should instead be named like export me
if this was a template so people would
know to come in and export this now the
first question is probably racing with
your mind is oh man I need to add ten
more slides well then you need to go
here composition settings increase the
length of this you know just three
minutes or something so many minutes
duplicate these I am put them up like
this move them over like so overlap them
if you so desire you know that overlap
is key because you know this one starts
to come on you get that line coming
through and then you would just
duplicate some slides so we would get
slides four five six we will get
footages four five six we would swap out
the footages in here so this gets
swamped with this or with this and then
we will go back into slide four and then
down to here footage former goes here
but you can see how if you were making a
template that you would want to tell
people all right export me and put all
of these slides into something like that
says don't touch me
and all of these footages here and put
those in something that says
it's cool to touch me and you can have
people go in here replace the footages
there you go people are away at the
races and like I said use photos use
videos use whatever you need use
drawings as long as it is a layer and
you could put it in there you are fine
well thank you so much for watching
hopefully that worked out for you if it
didn't if you ran into troubles let me
know in the comments if you're familiar
with this channel you know I try to
respond to everybody there are no silly
questions but that's not true and then
how do you make a pie that is a silly
question cuz I'm an expert pie maker I
will not show my secrets but if you have
troubles with this specific tutorial
just let me know in the comments and
I'll try to go back to as soon as I can
if you have questions about After
Effects in general hit me up on Twitter
at ICI Abrams on there or get involved
on the Facebook links to all that in the
description and speaking of links that
are in the description hey how about
that 7 day free trial of video blocks
who sponsored this tutorial click the
link down there it should be above the
fold so that you can enjoy it or you
know if you don't like reading that
stuff and you just want to type what I
say go to video blocks calm slash
YouTube and go there get this stuff so
again if this is the kind of thing you
enjoy subscribe to this channel if you
have trouble let me know in the comments
and if you want to see more of these
videos we'll check out the rest of the
others on the channel there's a bunch of
them goes back a long ways I've been
doing this for a while so check them out
but if you want future stuff you got to
subscribe and you know let me know if
you enjoyed this comes up thumbs down
that kind of thing and I guess I'll see
you around the internet thanks for
watching and have a great day